The anti‑greenwashing rule is one part of a package of measures we finalised in November
2023 through our Policy Statement (PS) on Sustainability Disclosure Requirements (SDR)
and investment labels (PS23/16). When we published PS23/16 we consulted on general
guidance to support the implementation of the anti‑greenwashing rule.

There is significant consumer interest in sustainable products and services. Our
Financial Lives Survey (2022) shows that 74% of adults surveyed agreed that
environmental issues are really important to them and 79% agreed businesses have a
wider social responsibility than simply making a profit. As the demand for sustainable
products and services grows, so does the risk of ‘greenwashing’. As firms increasingly
make sustainability‑related claims about their products and services, there are concerns
that some of these may be exaggerated, misleading, and unsubstantiated.

Tackling greenwashing is a priority for us. We want to protect consumers against
greenwashing so they can make informed decisions that are aligned with their
sustainability preferences. But we also want to create a level playing field for firms in an
evolving market, whose products and services genuinely represent a more sustainable
choice and who are making genuine claims about their products’ and services’
sustainability characteristics. If stakeholders trust the sustainability‑related claims firms
are making about their products and services, this may increase confidence in markets
and the flow of capital into these products.

We introduced the anti‑greenwashing rule to clarify to firms that sustainability‑related
claims about their products and services must be fair, clear and not misleading. It gives
us an explicit rule on which to challenge firms if we consider they are making misleading
sustainability‑related claims about their products or services and, if appropriate, take
further action.


This Guidance is designed to help firms understand and implement our anti‑greenwashing
rule, following feedback from some respondents to our consultation paper (CP) on SDR
and investment labels (CP22/20) asking for guidance.


It is intended to advance our operational objectives by helping firms ensure that, as
product and service offerings evolve, sustainability‑related claims stand up to scrutiny
and consumers are protected from potentially misleading or inaccurate information.
Increasing the transparency and accuracy of sustainability‑related claims which are
made about products and services should also help enhance the integrity and credibility
of the market for sustainable finance and ensure that competition remains effective.


The Guidance is also consistent with our secondary international competitiveness and
growth objective. It should enable both consumers and firms to have better confidence
in identifying sustainable products and making informed purchases. Better industry
standards should help to improve market integrity and build on the UK’s reputation
and leading international position in the sustainable finance market, helping to attract
sustainable investments to support a thriving economy.


In developing the anti‑greenwashing rule and guidance, we considered the regulatory
principles in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 including that, where relevant
to the exercise of our functions, we contribute towards achieving the UK’s net zero
emissions target. We also considered the Chancellor’s latest remit letter, which asked us
to have regard to the Government’s ambitions for the provision of sustainable finance.


Guidance on the anti‑greenwashing rule
Scope

Our anti‑greenwashing rule, in the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)
Sourcebook (ESG 4.3.1R), requires firms to ensure that any reference to the
sustainability characteristics of a product or service is: consistent with the sustainability
characteristics of the product or service, and is fair, clear and not misleading.

The terms ‘environmental’, ‘social’ and ‘governance’ are used to refer to sustainability
matters. However, there is no single definition of ‘sustainability’. In PS23/16 we
said that we consider governance to be an enabler of environmental and/or social
outcomes, rather than an end in itself, and we refer to ‘sustainability characteristics’ as
environmental or social characteristics.

Our anti‑greenwashing rule applies when a firm:
communicates with clients in the UK in relation to a product or service, or
communicates a financial promotion (or approves a financial promotion for
communication) to a person in the UK.

The rule applies with respect to references to sustainability characteristics
(environmental and/or social characteristics) of a product or service.
The rule applies in relation to financial products and services which FCA-authorised
firms make available for clients in the UK. This includes financial promotions that
authorised firms communicate or approve for unauthorised persons (including for
overseas products and services where the promotion is approved in the UK).

Firms are nevertheless subject to other rules including those that govern claims about
the firm itself (as outlined below).
References to sustainability characteristics could be present in (but are not limited to)
communications that include statements, assertions, strategies, targets, policies,
information, and images relating to a product or service.


The rule applies to all authorised firms irrespective of whether they are subject to the
Consumer Duty. Any reference to the Consumer Duty in this Guidance is designed to
help firms interpret how the rule and the Duty interact, where relevant.
We recognise that some authorised firms operate a business‑to‑business model,
as opposed to a customer‑to‑business model. For this reason, we have used the
term ‘audience’ in this Guidance to better capture the client or person that firm may
be communicating with. This may be, for example, existing or prospective clients,
customers, consumers, or businesses.


Expectations and examples
This Guidance is designed to help firms understand our expectations under the
anti‑greenwashing rule.
In practice, the effect of the anti‑greenwashing rule and the other rules mentioned
above mean the following:
Sustainability references should be:
Correct and capable of being substantiated
Clear and presented in a way that can be understood
Complete – they should not omit or hide important information and should consider the full life cycle of the product or service
Comparisons to other products or services are fair and meaningful

Rules for making non greenwashing claims
Rule 1: Claims should be correct and capable of being substantiated
The claims firms make should be factually correct. Firms should not state or imply
features of a product or service that are not true. Nor should they overstate or
exaggerate a product or service’s sustainability or positive environmental and/or
social impact. Claims should only give the impression that a product or service has the
sustainability characteristics that it really has. Claims can also be misleading if they
provide conflicting or contradictory information.

A firm’s products or services should do what they say they do. They should live up to the
claims made, and firms should be able to support those claims with robust and credible
evidence. Claims should be capable of being substantiated at the point in time at which
they are made. Firms should think carefully about whether they have the appropriate
evidence to support their claims.
It is also important that firms regularly review their claims and any evidence that supports
them, to ensure the evidence is still relevant for so long as those claims are being
communicated (eg, a financial promotion is live). Firms should also ensure that their
claims remain compliant with the anti‑greenwashing rule on an ongoing basis. Firms
which approve financial promotions subject to the rules in COBS 4 should consider
compliance with the anti‑greenwashing rule as part of their monitoring of the ongoing
compliance of the financial promotion which they have approved.
Where a firm’s claim makes specific reference to the evidence that supports it, they may
want to consider whether it would be helpful to make that evidence publicly available in
an easily accessible way.

Example 1 (bad practice related to claims should be correct and capable of being substantiated)
A firm makes a promotional statement that an investment fund is ‘fossil fuel free’.
However, the terms and conditions explain that the investment fund includes
investments in companies involved in the production, selling, and distribution of
fossil fuels where the company’s revenue earned from those activities is below a
certain threshold.
So, the companies within the investment fund are not ‘fossil fuel free’. This
statement is not factually correct and is not capable of being substantiated, which
makes the claim misleading.


Example 2 (bad practice related to claims should be correct and capable of being substantiated)
In the promotions for a fund, an investment manager prominently displays a
claim that all investments are reviewed for their sustainability characteristics.
However, not all investments are systematically reviewed for their sustainability
characteristics, and sustainability characteristics are not always factored into the
investment manager's decisions.

There is a risk that the investment manager is overstating the extent to which
they consider the sustainability characteristics of investments in the fund and
that this claim cannot be substantiated. Should the investment manager wish to
make this claim, all their investments should be consistently reviewed for their
sustainability characteristics, and the investment manager should hold evidence
to demonstrate how they do this and how the review is factored into their
decision‑making process. The investment manager may want to consider whether
to make this information publicly available in an easily accessible way.


Example 3 (good practice related to claims should be correct and capable of being substantiated)
A firm advertises a fund which makes social sustainability claims, including
statements that it invests in companies that have good labour practices in line
with international best practice. The fund manager establishes clear and robust
standards for selecting investee companies – it has chosen to include fair wages,
safe working conditions and other criteria that align with international frameworks
and standards. It assesses and monitors the investments that it has selected,
and seeks to address any issues that arise while holding the investment through
appropriate escalation. Its marketing materials include a clear explanation of the
investment objectives and strategy, including its standards for selecting investee
companies and the types of holdings in the fund.


Rule 2: Claims should be clear and presented in a way that can be understood
The claims firms make should be transparent and straightforward, and firms should
consider whether the meaning of all the terms would be understood by the intended
audience. For example, technical language may be difficult to understand, so firms
should consider whether any technical terms could be explained for the intended
audience, unless their meaning is clear and widely understood. The use of broad
terms or general statements may be also unclear and confusing. Firms should not
use terms that might give the impression that a product or service has sustainability
characteristics that it does not have.

Firms should consider whether the information they are providing is useful for the
intended audience. Where a claim is being communicated to a professional client, firms
may not need to include the same information or present it in the same way as they
would for a communication addressed to a retail client.

Firms should also be aware of the overall impression a visual presentation of a claim
can create. The images, logos and colours used are an important part of the overall
presentation of a claim. Firms should consider how images, logos and colours together
may be perceived by the audience when presented alongside other sustainability
characteristics of a product or service. Claims may be undermined if what they say is
factually correct, but their visual presentation conveys a different impression.

This Guidance does not extend to the use of images, logos, and colours in a context not
intended to refer to, or describe, the sustainability characteristics of a product or service
(although other rules may apply).

If firms are subject to the Consumer Duty, they should test their communications
where appropriate. This testing should check that communications are likely to
be understood by customers and meet their information needs so they can make
effective, timely and properly informed decisions. Firms should consider if it would be
appropriate to test communications relating to a product or service, where they are
making sustainability‑related claims. Our consumer research on SDR and investment
labels summarises our consumer testing findings, which shaped our final rules, and
includes some considerations for asset management firms developing consumer‑facing
disclosures.

Firms subject to the Duty should also ensure they have the necessary information to
understand and monitor customer outcomes. This includes, where relevant, checking
if customers are equipped with the information to make effective, timely and properly
informed decisions. It also includes being able to assess the overall customer outcomes
when they purchase a product or service or when they interact with a firm. For example,
whether they can use the products or services as expected, the value that they receive,
and whether they may be subject to harm. Where firms identify any problems, they
should investigate and correct any deficiencies.


Example 4(bad practice related to firm not presenting claims in a clear understandable way )
A firm has a large image of a rainforest at the top of its webpage about its savings
accounts, with an overlay of text that reads ‘Sustainable Savings’. The webpage
includes its ‘Green Savings Account’ alongside a list of other savings accounts. Its
‘Green Savings Account’ uses deposits to lend to companies to fund sustainable
projects, while its other savings accounts do not.
In this case, the image of the rainforest on the savings account webpage coupled
with the text that reads ‘Sustainable Savings’ may give its audience the impression
that the firm will use deposits in all savings accounts to help create positive
sustainability outcomes. If only the deposits in its ‘Green Savings Account’ are
ringfenced to fund sustainable projects, the use of both words and images in this
way is potentially misleading as it gives the impression that the bank uses deposits
to finance sustainable projects through more of the savings accounts offered than it
actually does.

If the firm wishes to use a sustainability‑related image, they should use an
image that is consistent with the sustainability characteristics of the product or
service, and only use that image in relation to products and services with those
characteristics. In this case, it should only use the image and text for the ‘Green
Savings Account’, rather than all savings accounts.


Rule 3: Claims should be complete – they should not omit or hide important
information

Claims should give a representative picture of the product or service. Firms should not
omit or hide important information that might influence decision‑making.

Where claims are only true if certain conditions apply, those should be clearly and
prominently stated. Similarly, the limitations of any information, data or metrics used in a
claim should be clearly and prominently disclosed.

Claims should not highlight only positive sustainability impacts where this disguises
negative impacts. Firms should present claims in a balanced way and not focus solely on
a product or service’s positive sustainability characteristics, where other aspects may
have a negative impact on sustainability.

Similarly, firms should consider the life cycle of a product or service, as appropriate,
when making sustainability‑related claims. Firms should base their claims on the full life
cycle of the product or service. Otherwise, for example in cases where certain elements
of the life cycle may be more of interest in a consumer’s decision‑making process, firms
should be clear about which part of the life cycle the claim relates to. Firms should not
cherry‑pick information as this may give the impression that a product or service has
sustainability characteristics that it does not have.

Firms should consider what information is necessary to include for the claim to give a
representative picture of the product or service. Firms should also consider whether
information about the firm itself may be considered part of the ‘representative
picture’ of a product or service. It is important that those claims meet the relevant
rules and expectations (as outlined above) so that the overall picture is fair, clear and
not misleading.


Example 5(bad practice related to claim should be complete and not omit or hide important information)
A bank promotes bonds and makes claims about their sustainability impact. The
bonds are used to finance a range of sustainability projects including renewable
energy and improving companies’ energy efficiency. However, eligible activities
also include projects to improve the efficiency of fossil fuel energy production and
distribution – information which is not included in the promotional materials.
Omitting this information is potentially misleading for its audience as from
the marketing materials consumers may not expect these bonds to include
investments in projects related to fossil fuels. The firm should be transparent in
its promotional materials about what the eligible activities might include. The firm
could also explain how the projects can contribute to sustainability impact so that
its consumers can better understand why they are eligible

Example 6 (bad practice related to claim should be complete and not omit or hide important information)
A commonly tracked benchmark claims to be ‘sustainable’, by excluding
companies with ESG ratings ‘lower than 3’. The benchmark administrator does
not specify what the rating aims to assess, for example, whether it assesses
sustainability‑related risks or impact. It also does not specify the scale the rating
uses, which could be 1‑10, and does not disclose the rationale for choosing an
ESG score of 3 as the appropriate threshold. It could, in reality, not be a high bar, as
standards may vary across markets.
The benchmark administrator does not give its audience complete information
and so does not make it clear whether and how the benchmark is representing
sustainable objectives. This could result in users and ultimately end‑investors
being misled about the sustainability outcomes of the benchmark.


Example 7 (good practice related to claim should be complete and not omit or hide important information)
A fund manager advertises its asset selection process as ‘focused on supporting
carbon intensive companies with credible transition plans to finance their
decarbonisation’. The fund promoted invests in Sustainability‑Linked Bonds (SLBs).
In its marketing materials to potential investors the manager highlights how it
selects only those SLBs that meet criteria that are ‘in line with market standards
for best practice’.
To support this claim, the fund manager names the SLB framework it uses to
assess potential investments within the marketing materials. The marketing
materials also set out the qualities it looks for within SLBs to support compliance
with this framework – which in this case includes clear, measurable, and ambitious
performance indicators and sustainability performance targets linked to a
company’s transition plan, and routine reporting against these metrics which will
be independently verified.


Rule 4: Comparisons should be fair and meaningful
The claims firms make when comparing a product or service, either to one of their
previous versions or to a competitors’, should be fair and meaningful. Comparisons
should enable the audience to make informed choices about the products or services.

Claims comparing the sustainability characteristics of products and services should
make clear what is being compared, how a comparison is being made and should
compare like with like. Claims that appear to make market‑wide comparisons but are
based only on a limited sample have the potential to mislead their audience.

Firms should be careful when making claims about the extent to which a feature of a
product or service has sustainability characteristics when it may simply be meeting a
minimum standard of compliance with existing legal requirements. Such claims could be
misleading, as, while they may be true, they may also wrongly give the impression that
their product or service is superior to others available.

Where comparative claims are made, any evidence to substantiate those should cover
all products or services compared.


Example 8(bad practice related Comparisons should be fair and meaningful)
A firm claims that by buying their investment bond, investors will ‘reduce emissions’
more than through buying other investment bonds on the market. However, the
firm does not make it clear to its audience that this comparison refers only to
Scope 1 emissions (as opposed to all emissions – Scope 1, 2 and 3) and was based
on a limited sample at a particular date.
The firm has picked information that paints a better picture of its investment
bond compared to others on the market. The claim does not make clear how the
comparison is being made or its limitations. The firm should make the limitations
of the comparative claim clear. In doing so, it should explain what is meant by
Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, if this technical language is not widely understood by
the intended audience, and the limitations of covering only Scope 1 emissions. It
should clarify that the claim was based on a limited sample, explaining what the
sample was and the date on which that sample was taken.


Abbreviation Description
ASA means Advertising Standards Authority
CMA means Competition and Markets Authority
COBS means Conduct of Business Sourcebook
CP means Consultation Paper
ESG means Environmental, Social and Governance
FCA means Financial Conduct Authority
GC means Guidance Consultation
PS means Policy Statement
SDR means Sustainability Disclosure Requirements
SLB means Sustainability-Linked Bonds
UK means United Kingdom
